# docconvert :arrow_right:

Convert Markdown documents to HTML

## Syntax

`docconvert(md)` converts the Markdown document(s) `md` to HTML.

Multiple documents may also be specified using `docconvert(md1,md2,...)`.

`docconvert(...,"Theme",t)` sets the theme `t`.  Available themes are `light`, `dark`, and `auto` (responsive, default).  For viewing as part of the MATLAB documentation, especially prior to R2025a, light mode works best.  For viewing standalone, responsive mode works well.

`docconvert(...,"Stylesheets",css)` includes the stylesheet(s) `css`.

`docconvert(...,"Scripts",js)` includes the script(s) `js`.  Scripts are included at the end of the body in the order specified to ensure that the HTML content is loaded and rendered before the scripts run.  :test_tube:

`docconvert(...,"Root",r)` publishes to the root folder `r`, placing stylesheets and scripts in the subfolder `resources`.  The root folder must be a common ancestor of the Markdown documents.  If not specified, the root folder is the lowest common ancestor.

`[html,res] = docconvert(...)` returns the names of the HTML document(s) `html` and the resources folder `res` created.

| Name | Description | Type | Required |
| :-: | --- | :-: | :-: |
| `md`:arrow_right: | Markdown document(s), as an absolute or relative path; wildcards are [supported](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/dir.html#bsnswnx-1-name) | string(s) | yes |
| `t`:arrow_right: | theme: `light`, `dark`, or `auto`; default is `auto` | string(s) | |
| `css`:arrow_right: | CSS stylesheet(s), as an absolute or relative path; wildcards are [supported](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/dir.html#bsnswnx-1-name) | string(s) | |
| `js`:arrow_right: | JavaScript script(s), as an absolute or relative path; wildcards are [supported](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/dir.html#bsnswnx-1-name) | string(s) | :test_tube: |
| `r`:arrow_right: | root folder, as an absolute or relative path; default is the lowest common ancestor of `md` | string | |
| :arrow_right:`html` | HTML document(s) created, as an absolute path | string(s) | |
| :arrow_right:`res` | resources folder created, as an absolute path | string | |

## Examples

```matlab
docconvert("mickey/pluto.md") 
```
converts a single Markdown document `mickey/pluto.md` to HTML `mickey/pluto.html`.  Note that this path is *relative*.

```matlab
docconvert("C:\daisy\mickey\pluto.md") 
```
also converts a single Markdown document, this time specified using an *absolute* path.

```matlab
docconvert("mickey/*.md") 
```
converts *all* Markdown documents in `mickey` to HTML.

```matlab
docconvert("mickey/**/*.md") 
```
converts all Markdown documents in `mickey` *and its subfolders*.

```matlab
docconvert(["mickey/pluto.md" "mickey/donald.md"]) 
```
converts *multiple* Markdown documents to HTML.

```matlab
docconvert("mickey/pluto.md","Stylesheets","huey/louie.css") 
```
copies the stylesheet `huey/louie.css` to the `resources` folder and includes a `<link>` in the HTML `<head>`.

```matlab
docconvert("mickey/pluto.md","Scripts","morty/ferdie.js") 
```
copies the script `morty/ferdie.js` to the `resources` folder and includes a `<script>` in the HTML `<body>`. :test_tube:

```matlab
docconvert("mickey/goofy/*.md","Root","mickey") 
```
sets the root folder to `mickey`, rather than the lowest common ancestor `mickey/goofy` of the Markdown documents.

## Details

### Steps

The conversion consists of 7 steps:
1. Read the Markdown document
2. Convert Markdown to an HTML fragment using the [GitHub Markdown API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/markdown) service
3. Tidy up the HTML fragment in preparation for XML postprocessing
4. Replace `.md` links in the fragment to `.html` -- Markdown links to Markdown, HTML links to HTML
5. Build an HTML document around the HTML fragment
   * including default stylesheets, specified stylesheets, and specified scripts
   * using the first level-1 heading `# Heading` as the `<html>` `<title>`
6. Copy the specified stylesheets and scripts to the `resources` folder in the root folder
7. Write the document to an HTML document next to the original Markdown document

### Styling

DocMaker seeks to provide pleasant style by default, but you can override the default styles by specifying your own stylesheets.

For example, to make level-2 headings `## Heading` blue, create and specify a stylesheet with:
```css
h2 {
  color: blue;
}
```

Since cascading stylesheets [*cascade*](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Cascade), later styles override earlier styles.

This feature depends on reverse-engineering the HTML generated by the [GitHub Markdown API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/markdown) service, although much of the behavior is obvious.

### Postprocessing

Generated HTML may be postprocessed in the browser using JavaScript.  Postprocessing code may be included by specifying the optional input `Scripts`.  Scripts are included at the end of the body in the order specified to ensure that the HTML content is loaded and rendered before the scripts run.

This feature is experimental :test_tube: and may be removed in a future version.

___

[home](index.md) :house: | [convert](docconvert.md) :arrow_right: | [run](docrun.md) :runner: | [index](docindex.md) :scroll: | [delete](docdelete.md) :recycle: | [workspace](workspace.md) :construction_worker: | [about](about.md) :hatching_chick: | :copyright: [MathWorks](https://www.mathworks.com/services/consulting.html) 2024-2026